---
layout: post
title: The Big Data Power BI Marathon in 2022
---

Big Data & Analytics Competence Development Team at SoftServe always
aims to deliver the best solutions and opportunities. The Big Data Power
BI Marathon was not an exception. What intended to be a Power BI
Marathon for Ukrainians who fled the war turned into the Marathon with
both international speakers and audience. The Marathon was a perfect
combination of expertise, knowledge, practice, and drive. What made it
so special?

Easy. Firstly, the pool of speakers was full of A-list Power BI experts.
Namely:

  <img src="/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image1.png" width="100" height="180" align="top" />[**André Melancia**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andremelancia/), Developer, DBA, and Microsoft Certified Trainer<br><br>
  
  ![A person in a white shirt Description automatically generated with medium confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image2.png)             [**Andrey Nikolov**](https://www.facebook.com/andrew.nikoloff), Co-founder of FrameStory SoftWare\ \

  ![A person smiling with her hand on her chin Description automatically generated with medium confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image3.png)	  [**Anna Voropaieva**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anna-voropaieva-a588b63/), Senior BI Engineer at SoftServe
  ![A person with a beard Description automatically generated with medium confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image4.png)                        [**Ásgeir Gunnarsson**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/asgeirgun/), Owner of North Insights and Microsoft MVP
  ![A picture containing text, person, person, posing Description automatically generated](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image5.png)                   [**Damian Widera**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/damian-widera-0b56284/), Microsoft MVP for SQL Server and Microsoft Certified Trainer
  ![A person smiling for the camera Description automatically generated with medium confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image6.png)              [**Iryna Vilchynska**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/iryna-v-67a353120/), Lead BigData DW/BI Engineer
  ![A picture containing diagram Description automatically generated](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image7.png)                                        [**Jermaine McDonald**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jermainehmcdonald/), Power BI Trainer, Data Analytics Training Manager, Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT), and co-founder of Learn Grow Invest
  ![A person with a beard and glasses Description automatically generated with low confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image8.png)               [**Markus Ehrenmueller-Jensen**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/markus-ehrenmueller/), Founder and Business Intelligence at Savory Data
  ![A person wearing glasses Description automatically generated with medium confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image9.png)                     [**Reza Rad**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rezarad/?originalSubdomain=nz), Founder & CEO at RADACAD and Microsoft Regional Director
  ![A person wearing glasses Description automatically generated with medium confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image10.png)                    [**Vitali Burla**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vitaliburla/), Data Analyst at ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
  ![A person with a beard Description automatically generated with low confidence](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image11.png)                          [**Taras Kloba**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kloba/), Big Data Engineering Manager at SoftServe and Co-Founder at PostgreSQL Ukraine
  ![](/imgs/the-big-data-power-bi-marathon/image12.png)                                                                                                       [**Olga Nazarenko**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/otipita/), Senior DW/BI Engineer at SoftServe

The speakers brought to the table exclusive insights and practical
pieces of advice. They proved one more time that the Power BI universe
has no borders. From Portugal, New Zealand, Bulgaria, and Poland, the
gurus communicated to the Marathon participants to introduce them to
this efficient tool and navigate through this new career path.
Regardless of time zones, Power BI wizards conducted workshops,
lectures, and Q&A sessions. Hence, they supported learners and ensured
the best results.

Secondly, there was a class of dedicated and motivated students.
Participants were always ready to deliver the result, whether it was a
practical assignment or a question at the Q&A session. Upon
registration, we had 900+ applicants from 35 countries willing to take
part in the Marathon. To prove their readiness and will to acquire new
skills, it was demanded from students to pass both English and Incoming
tests. The selection process resulted in the enrollment of one-third of
all the candidates. Owing to students\' hard work and drive, there are
50 successful Cloud Certifications as a Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst
Associate.

Finally, we are proud of the material on the Marathon. Brilliant and
insightful lectures were well received by students on the Marathon.
Moreover, we offer you an out-of-the-way opportunity to look at it too.
To do so, you need to fill in [the
form](https://share.hsforms.com/19KhpVAfdRb6oc1gfWzoewg3ir33) providing
your email address, and then wait for the letter with links to the
recordings.

Altogether, this Marathon is a successful example of a learning
solution. The mixture of qualified professionals and
hungry-for-knowledge students demonstrated that fortune favors the bold,
and hard work always pays off!
